

MacNamara2012 - Signal transduction

A toy model of signal tranduction to illustrate how different logic formalizms
(Boolean, fuzzy logic and differential equations) treat state and time, is
described here.

This model was generated from the PKN-ToyPB.sif file available in
[cellnopt.data 0.7.8](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/cellnopt.data/) (also on
http://www.cellnopt.org (data section) using
[libSBML](http://sbml.org/Software/libSBML) .

This model is described in the article:

[State-time spectrum of signal transduction logic
models.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/22871648)

MacNamara A, Terfve C, Henriques D, Bernab√© BP, Saez-Rodriguez J

Physical Biology [2012, 9(4):045003]

Abstract:

Despite the current wealth of high-throughput data, our understanding of
signal transduction is still incomplete. Mathematical modeling can be a tool
to gain an insight into such processes. Detailed biochemical modeling provides
deep understanding, but does not scale well above relatively a few proteins.
In contrast, logic modeling can be used where the biochemical knowledge of the
system is sparse and, because it is parameter free (or, at most, uses
relatively a few parameters), it scales well to large networks that can be
derived by manual curation or retrieved from public databases. Here, we
present an overview of logic modeling formalisms in the context of training
logic models to data, and specifically the different approaches to modeling
qualitative to quantitative data (state) and dynamics (time) of signal
transduction. We use a toy model of signal transduction to illustrate how
different logic formalisms (Boolean, fuzzy logic and differential equations)
treat state and time. Different formalisms allow for different features of the
data to be captured, at the cost of extra requirements in terms of
computational power and data quality and quantity. Through this demonstration,
the assumptions behind each formalism are discussed, as well as their
advantages and disadvantages and possible future developments.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[MODEL1305240000](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/MODEL1305240000) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

